Difference between adduser and useradd:

useradd:

It’s a low-level command used to create a user account.
It requires you to manually specify options like the home directory, shell, etc.
It doesn’t provide prompts or interactive questions.
It's more flexible but requires more input from the user. 

adduser:

It’s a high-level command (often a script) that is easier to use.
It automatically handles creating the home directory, setting the default shell, and asks you for details like the password, full name, etc.
It’s more user-friendly, especially for beginners.


Question;
Which version of jenkins you used  in your project    expample :   2.4   



1. Give me your Self Intro
2. How you will check disk utilization in Linux?
3. How will you troubleshoot regarding running processes?
4. What is the /etc directory?
5. I am able to ping from machine to another machine but not able connect, how can you troubleshoot it?
6. What is the exact flow for finding a large file using a shell scripting with error handling?
7. Explain the exact command to get letter 'd' in your name?
8. What is difference between softlink and hardlink?
9. How will you do network issues troubleshooting, what are the commands you use?
10. How to find log files in a directory which are not used from the given rentention time period?
11. How will you create backup for all logs and explain the process?
12. what is the exact command to archeive logs?
13. If your cpu utlization very high then how will you troubleshoot it?
14. If it is exceeding 80% of CPU utilization, how can you send alerts in Linux?
15. How will you get first 1000 line from a file?
16. If your system is unresponsive then what are the troubleshooting steps you do for to solve this issue?
17. Give me exact command to create a symlink to refer?
18. what are the commands you use for mounting and unmounting purposes?
19. How will you make enable of passwordless authentication between two systems?
20  What the INODE in linux?
21. If a system is not responding after a restart, what could be reason and how will you troubleshoot it?
22. What are the shell scripts used during your projects?
23. Explain the complete flow of a shell script which is you mostly used in your proejct in a end-to-end manner?
24. How will you handle the memory management in python?
25. Can you explain the role of CICD and how would do it with using python?
26. Explain how would do error handling in python?
27. Can you tell me what is the deep and shadow copy in python?
28. What is docker compose and how it is differ from a Dockerfile?
29. How can manage the sensitive data like passwords in docker?
30. How docker handles the resource utilizations such as cpu and memory?
31. What is the command to export docker image?
32. Where are docker volumes store in docker?
33. What is the purposes of docker checkpoint?
34. How will encure container-1 runs before container-2 run in docker compose?
35. How you update the docker container without losing the data?
36. In K8s a critical application is failing and logs not providing any kind of information.
    What steps you take to troubleshoot this kind of issues?
37. A critical application is running on one of the nodes, It is not working properly.
    How would you monitor suck kind of applications in k8s?
38. What is the role of Kube Proxy in cluster?
39. If you have a pod that is struck in a CrashLoppBackOff error, how do you troubleshoot it?
40. If your application which is running on k8s cluster which is facing huge traffic and slowdown.
    then how would to scale up the resources for that pod?
41. Suppose you deployed a new version of an application but users are experiencing some issues wit that new version.
    How do you rollback to the previous version?
42. Suppose your application is deployed in k8s, after scale up that pods and applications are still not performing well,
    the cpu usage is high and memory usage reaching the limits, how do you handle this kind of issues?
43. In your k8s cluster master and worker nodes are suddenly failed, then what will happen?
44. If only master node fail means what will happen?
45. If worker nodes fails what will happen?
46. Suppose your application is using pvc but the pvc is struck in the pending state.
    So how would you troubleshoot it?
47. You have configured a networkpolicy to restrict the traffic between the pods, but some pods are still able to 
    communicate, so how would you troubleshoot it?
